---
title: "RECON 2.0: going official"
subtitle: "RECON is now an NGO!"
bigimg: "/img/posts/welcome.jpg"
---



## What happened?

As of the 19th September 2018, the R Epidemics Consortium (RECON) has adopted a
non-governmental organisation (NGO) structure. We are now a not-for-profit,
incorporated association declared in France. You can find our statutes online 
[here](../documents/statutes_en_1.1.pdf), and the publication in the official journal ("Journal Officiel") 
[there](http://www.journal-officiel.gouv.fr/publications/assoc/pdf/2018/0039/JOAFE_PDF_Unitaire_20180039_01424.pdf).




## Why?

After 2 years of existence, we felt the need to give a formal structure to what
was largely an informal network of people interested in developing open
resources for outbreak response. Of the two possible courses of action
(association *vs* company), only the non-profit association suited our vision.

There are several advantages to becoming an NGO:

- we have a clearly defined membership, and a democratic structure for
  governance, formed by an executive board, and a General Assembly of voting
  members; we will gather once a year with all our members to decide what new
  directions RECON will take, elect new members of the board, etc.
  
- the ability to handle our own finances, receive donations, and issue contracts

- we also used this occasion to broaden our remit, which now includes not only
  analytics for disease outbreak response, but also in the context of health
  emergencies and humanitarian crises
  



## What changed?

The transition to RECON-NGO, and our new membership guidelines, have led to
redefining our membership.  RECON now includes *subscribers*, who have access to
our [mailing list](https://mailman.ic.ac.uk/mailman/listinfo/recon-forum) and
our [slack organisation](https://reconhub.slack.com) for instant messaging, and
*contributing members*, who actively help developing packages, training
material, responding to health emergencies, or organising events. Note that by
default, former members have all become subscribers, and still benefit from
previous advantages. Only [members](../people) are now listed on the website, as the number
of subscribers keeps increasing.


We have also acquired an executive board, formed by, in alphabetic order:

- **Amrish Baidjoe**: Vice-president, Coordinator ‘Training and capacity building
- **Anne Cori**: Coordinator ‘methodology’
- **Rosalind Eggo**: Deputy Treasurer
- **Thibaut Jombart**: President, Treasurer
- **Zhian Kamvar**: Secretary, Coordinator ‘Software development’
- **Patrick Keating**: Deputy Secretary, Coordinator ‘Field deployment’
- **Lulla Opatowski**: Deputy secretary
- **Claire Thomson**: Deputy Treasurer

<br>
